You all have come now to Bangalore,
and yesterday you had gone to Mysore,
which was ruled by Mahishasura.
That’s the reason you didn’t get your
food -
it crossed you.
It’s better not to eat food in such places,
isn’t it?
All right.
So, it’s a very beautiful place
Bangalore is.
Climate is beautiful and you’ll find always
these rakshasas lived in places like this.
Like in Pune, you have, you know this
Rajneesh was there -
here is this Mahishasura still.
They always try to find places which are
cold
because they have so much heat in their
body.
Now as you know, there’s one more rakshasa
here who has to be exposed.
And this, today through our puja, we
should achieve.
In the olden days, when the Goddess had
to fight the rakshasas,
the rakshasas were not involved in human
beings as such.
They didn’t become gurus or anything.
And so, now we find in Kali Yuga,
they have gone into the brains of sadhakas,
of their devotees.
It’s very difficult to remove them.
And once they go into the brain
of the sadhakas,
then sadhakas become, of course, possessed,
they suffer, they have all kinds
of problems.
Despite that, they stick onto that person
because they are mesmerized, very much
mesmerized.
And this mesmerism makes them absolutely
so strong headed
that even if they have to die, they
won’t give up their gurus.
The main thing is that in this Kali Yuga
there are so many sadhakas,
they are running helter and skelter.
They are running all over,
trying to find out some way of finding
the truth.
While when the market is on, you know,
you get people to sell it also.
So that’s how so many have come up
and are trying these things, tricks,
on people all over.
Most of them have gone to the Western
countries because people have money.
Thank God we are not so rich in India
that they could not befool us - especially
in America.
And Americans took to these people as
a fish takes to water, very surprisingly.
I went there and told them and warned
them - they wouldn’t listen to me.
They can’t understand anything that you
can get without money.
But despite all that, so many of you have
been able
to come to Sahaja Yoga and get
to the reality.
It’s your destiny. It’s blessings to you
of your previous lives
that you could see it so clearly and come
to Sahaja Yoga;
and now you have grown so much, you have
become so matured
and you understand what others are doing
is absolutely wrong.
Also somebody told me about this fellow
Boy John (George) misbehaving
with these homosexuals and all that,
and calling them “Hare Rama, Hare
Krishna” - all nonsense.
Then I discovered that this story is very
prevalent in Kerala,
where they say that Krishna when He became,
I mean Vishnu, when He became Mohini,
He had a child from Shiva. Absurd.
And now, Murti is telling me when I told
you this story,
you said, “This is blasphemy, this is sin.”
Same way I feel.
It’s very dangerous also to play about
with a person like Vishnu.
He is a very dangerous deity.
Shiva, ultimately, is very dangerous but
it takes time with Him.
But as far as Vishnu is concerned, one has
to be very careful,
misbehaving like this. I don’t know
what is going to happen to them.
But they are so stupid, they are so stupid.
One thing they should judge that if this
thing you are doing is good for them,
is by God’s blessings, then why should you
get diseases?
There is a regular one crore of people,
going to a nonsensical place
where they have this Ayappa business,
and they wear black dresses for one month,
and they have their beard and everything.
They starve themselves, they go up, miles
together they climb,
do all kinds of things that is a sort
of a suffering for one month.
And eleven months they do everything.
This kind of a nonsense, you see.
So now it has become like a craze like
jogging or something like that in Kerala.
And this year there were one crore
of people doing this stupid nonsense.
I mean, even in India we have such stupid
people, you can see that.
But the number is not so much, I must say,
as it is in America, percentage.
In India, we are very conditioned
by this ritualism,
especially in the South we have lots
of ritualistic things.
And we are impressed by people if you take
out some watches,
Swiss made watches, or things like that.
To them, it’s something really remarkable
that how can you have
Swiss made watches here. Very simple
people.
They do not understand that none
of the incarnations did these tricks
and that truth should be based on
the tradition, on the shastras.
It cannot deviate and whatever deviates
is actually heretic and also is blasphemy.
But as I told you the other day that those
people who talk of knowledge, like Sufis,
who got their realisation, real Sufis, they
were called as heretics -
they were thrown out of the religion.
Also the Christians -
the early Christians, who were Gnostics -
were called as mad people, heretics.
In the same way, those who are following
stupid things,
and are following something that is very
black and dark, negative,
will definitely go against Sahaja Yoga
and will say that this is something heretic
or it is something that is blasphemy.
But, as you understand now what it is,
we have to bring forth new laws that those
who are not Sahaja Yogis
are actually, if they are practicing any
religion,
they are not doing the right thing.
Slowly slowly, as Vatican is getting
exposed
and the Christian churches are getting
exposed,
even in India, so many such organisations
are getting exposed,
and people are understanding that this is
very wrong.
These ideas actually have come from
incarnations only,
like Adi Shankaracharya himself has said,
“Tatatkim, tatatkim, tatatkim” -
if you have not followed your guru,
then “tatatkim”.
So they said now any guru can come
from the jail,
can be a smuggler, can be anything,
characterless person -
if you call him a guru, then he is a guru.
Whatever we call somebody, say we call
somebody as a guru
and we stick on, “This is my guru.”
But what did the guru give to you, that
nobody asks.
We just feel happy, “Oh, very nice.”
It’s like the worms clinging onto the lotus
and saying, “Oh, we have lotus.”
What about you, you are a worm still,
what is the use of these lotuses?
Or whether that is lotus or a snake, God
only knows.
So a guru who doesn’t talk of realisation,
who doesn’t talk of Kundalini,
who doesn’t talk of ascent, who doesn’t
talk of second birth -
cannot be a guru - minimum of minimum.
So like we also believe in say Rama,
“I believe in Rama.” So what?
Are you obliging Rama or Rama is obliging
you?
“I believe in Christ” - so what?
You believe in this, you believe in that -
it’s such an absurd idea, still I never
understand
when people say, “I believe in this.”
But what does that mean, what does that
mean?
You believe in Christ.
You are leading a licentious life, you are
doing all kinds -
but “I believe in Christ, I believe
in God.”
Doing everything against divinity, and
“I believe”.
So the question comes: what do you mean
by believing?
It’s like, “I believe, it is silver” -
so what? It is silver.
What does it make to you to believe by that
saying something
you have done great? What is great in that?
Now if you say, “I believe in
Shri Mataji” - so what?
All right, you believe in me because
of certain experiences - still what?
Mataji should be in your life, should be
in your expression,
in your behaviour, in your treatment
to others,
in understanding each other, and loving
each other.
That is what impresses people.
People say, “All right, we’ll come to
Mataji, we’ll just pray to Her
and go away - we’ll not talk to you.” Why?
“Because we believe in Mataji, finished.”
So now we have to understand that you
believe in Sahaja Yoga,
of course, it is Shraddha (faith), it is
not a blind faith, I agreed,
but still belief has to penetrate into your
being.
This belief has to act, has to show
results,
it has to work out in every way.
Somebody might say that we believe
in Mataji and She does everything -
She’ll do bhakti for us.
I should sit down and sing the song
of Mataji or what.
So what is going to come from your side,
that is what we have to understand;
and once that starts working, then these
demons
and these rakshasas will all vanish,
no problem.
So: “What am I doing for Sahaja Yoga?”
We should ask the question, “What am I
doing?”
Now if you make this instrument, and then
if it is not doing anything,
what is the use of making the instrument?
Now you are the light, you have got
enlightenment:
but what is the use of a light which is
hanging somewhere,
which is not giving light to anyone?
So when you are giving light to others,
in a very innocent manner,
in a very reciprocal manner - not this way
that we are giving light
because we want to have an advantage
over it,
or we want to show off or any all
nonsensical things that are there.
Then the derailment starts.
People start saying, “Oh, I am this,
I am that.”
But with full understanding, that we are
instruments in the hands of the divinity
and we are just enjoying that divinity
flowing through us and working out,
you won’t feel tired, you won’t feel
upset,
you’ll not be in any way in trouble.
But this has happened with you.
You are so matured, but still, we all have
to decide
that now we are going to India to get
ourselves the whole joy of the tour.
But for what?
Not to keep to yourself, but to share it
with others.
This joy is for you to share it with
others.
Unless and until you learn that, your ego
will come back again and again.
And also you have seen the way
people who have been even spreading Sahaja
Yoga got into the mess of ego.
So one has to be very careful. The more
you are rising in your divinity,
the more you are maturing, you have
to be very careful.
See on a tree if you see, if there’s
a leaf, no insect will enter.
If there’s a flower, the insect will come
and it will make it into a fruit.
But when it is a fruit, then the insect
will enter and eat it off.
So when you are becoming a fruit, you have
to be very careful
that no insect should get into you.
On the contrary, now you have [the]
capacity to destroy all the insects.
And that is what is, I would say, is
the state where we should all come up to.
So you are destroying insects on one side
and satisfying people on the other side.
Collectivity is, of course no doubt, is
the only way you can be cleansed;
but the greater thing is to go out,
all out, to find out,
“Where can I spread Sahaja Yoga?
Where can I go?
What is the nearest village I can go?
Where will I work it out?”
All those things the more you think,
the better it is,
and you start moving in that direction.
Once you start moving in that direction,
you will be surprised
Sahaja Yoga will move ahead of you.
You’ll meet the people whom you want,
you’ll get all the necessary help that
you want,
suddenly you’ll find some people who will
come down
and say, “Now, what can we do for you?”
Every type of help starts coming to you
the way you expand yourself.
It’s like the expanding your wings, like
a bird does,
and then you take off. But if you don’t
extend yourself,
you keep Sahaja Yoga to yourself only,
it doesn’t work.
I know you love me very much and you know
I love you very much,
but don’t you think others should also
share this love,
others should also have this?
Now when we start struggling, we also
struggle with people
who are very difficult - like “my brother,
my brother’s son...”
Just don’t go near my, get away.
My is the most difficult thing.
You see, in my family, I don’t touch them
because once you go to my they sit
on your heads,
or maybe they’ll sit on the heads of the
Sahaja Yogis or something, nothing.
So don’t go to the people – “it is
my sister,
she is my sister-in-law”, nothing
of the kind.
What you have to do is to see what is
beyond
and the more you’ll go beyond, the better
it will be.
See, you can see clearly, we’ve worked
so hard in Maharashtra,
it is a useless place I find. Maharashtrian
Sahaja Yogis are few, very few,
but whatever are there are also not
so good.
While Delhi Sahaja Yogis, now here
in Madras, in Bangalore,
see what nice Sahaja Yogis are there.
So much work I have done there.
So those who are very near to you, always
cannot see the greatness of you.
Like if you go near the big mountain, you
cannot see the big mountain,
you have to be away and then you see.
In the same way,
when you want to do some work with anyone,
try to see that you are not closely
related,
nor do you have any connections with them.
Something unknown.
These people are much better for you
to follow
and they will keep your attention tight,
absolutely on you.
Otherwise, the people who are known
to you will trouble you.
Now there are many difficulties in
spreading Sahaja Yoga -
there were many, many more before, slowly
these are coming down.
Naturally, it is much better than at
the time of Thomas [the Apostle]
because he had to hide his treatise
to save it from others.
He thought a day will come when there
will be resurrection time,
then this treatise would be [revealed].
Imagine, only 48 years back,
now it would be around 53 or 50 years
back, it was discovered.
It was not discovered before. He had
to hide it.
But now we are not to hide.
We are to go all out and must know,
must forgive.
That, you see, ours is an open place where
anybody can come in.
So we get all kinds of people - if you go
and meet people,
also there is all kinds of oppositions,
all these things, doesn’t matter.
Everything can be overcome, but first is
your own initiative
and your own lethargy which has to be
overcome.
Then it will start spreading out.
Of course, we have already lot of Sahaja
Yogis -
in Russia, if you see, we have so many,
in thousands.
But in every place we can have lots
of people now
and I’m sure this is a nice year where they
say so, predict
that Sahaja Yoga will grow very much
this year.
So this is the beginning we are starting
today.
I just wanted to tell you that you have
the power,
you have the shakti within your reach.
They said it was very cold one day before
I came here,
I said, “Don’t worry.” I didn’t give
bandhan or anything.
I just came here and how they know!
It’s become all right, you are sitting
in your kurta pyjamas.
Otherwise, you would have been in your
three-piece suits shivering.
That’s how it works. But you have to be
that way dedicated.
Now for all these: Surya [sun] and Chandra
[moon]
and all these stars and the whole cosmos
has only one thing to do -
is to see that Sahaja Yoga is spreading
well,
is settling well and is achieving its goal.
Every element is working it out.
Everything is working - this Paramchaitanya
is working around in so many ways.
You are not to be convinced about me,
I know.
But now you have to be convinced
about yourself
that you have all the powers within you.
I mean, I don’t do anything really, to be
very frank.
If I could do everything, I would not have
had you, I would have done it myself.
But you have to do it - you are my
channels.
You are the channels of Shakti. But do it
in a way which is gracious,
which is beautiful, which is very
satisfying.
Like yesterday, that musician - he just
wanted to entertain you.
He wanted to play. I mean, he was
enjoying it.
In the same way, we should want to do it.
I don’t have to tell you.
And I am sure, in every area that you work,
in every personality whom you meet,
you can start talking about Sahaja Yoga
and tell them.
It works. It acts.
Moreover, it is behind you the whole power
of all the deities,
and in front is Sahaja Yoga running
forward fast, this Paramchaitanya:
“Now the Sahaja Yogis are coming,
all right,
let them not eat their food, finished” -
organising.
Everything so beautifully done. Now
see the arrangements and all -
I mean, I was thinking such few people
here, and about 20 Sahaja Yogis in Madras -
can you believe it, all this arrangement?
How it’s working out, how it is giving
results, it’s really remarkable.
So have faith in yourself, have faith
in all of them helping you,
not to be nervous and just go ahead.
Because the shakti is in you. You have
the power.
Every kind of power you have, I assure
you, you have every power.
Ask for it and you’ll
have it.
Whatever you ask for it, it will happen.
But don’t hesitate. As I said the other
day, that I make you sit on the throne,
then also I put the crown on your head.
And also I say, “Now you are the king,”
but still you are running away
and not believing me - looking this side
with fear –
“Am I a king really? How can I be?”
That’s not the way. Have faith in yourself.
I am very happy you all have come here.
We are trying to do whatever is possible
to make you comfortable and for you
to provide whatever is necessary.
Of course, you are only just Spirits
and you try to find the comfort of your
Spirit.
I know that you are very adjusting
yourself.
Everybody is surprised how you people
from the West -
who just believe in materialism - can take
to Sahaja Yoga: they are quite surprised.
But you are all very sweet people,
I think, something very special who have
come to Sahaja Yoga.
And by God’s grace, I’m sure
you will be the people who will be
the foundation of Sahaja Yoga
and you will build the great mansion
of Sahaja Yoga
with your wisdom, faith, shakti and love.
Today we’ll worship the Shakti - it’s very
much needed -
the Shakti who destroyed all the devils,
all the rakshasas.
That is what we are going to worship
today - the Shakti within you and without.
It’s your desire which is going to work.
So today we are going to worship
the Shakti itself - Mahakali.
May God bless you.